XLS-37d: Improved Concise Transaction Identifier (CTID) (#111)
XRPLF/XRPL-Standards: XLS-37d-ctid/README.md

Ledgers can therefore be uniquely identified by a `ledger_index` (sequence). [[2]](https://xrpl.org/basic-data-types.html#ledger-index) [[3]](https://xrpl.org/ledger-header.html) The only limitation is that the ledger needs to be closed before a sequence number can be used for identification.

Example Ledger Hash:

> F8A87917637D476E871D22A1376D7C129DAC9E25D45AD4B67D1E75EA4418654C

Example Ledger Index:

> 62084722

During consensus, all nodes on an XRP Ledger Chain will agree on the order of transactions within a given ledger. This unique sequence of transactions is referred to as the canonical order. [[4]](https://xrpl.org/consensus.html) This means that transactions, like ledgers, can also be identified by their index. This index is present in the transaction metadata as `TransactionIndex`.[[5]](https://xrpl.org/transaction-metadata.html)

Example:

```json
...
    "TransactionIndex":7
    "TransactionResult":"tesSUCCESS"
  }
"hash":"53726E6D021522A97602004841A2A7477D1900BD348ADA4D4DF812B466E56454"
"ledger_index":62084722
"date":1615278490000
}
```

### 1.3 Motivation

> The XRP Ledger is poised to become (or depending on the time of reading: has already become) an ecosystem of cooperatively interconnected XRPL Protocol Chains. It is imperative that users of these chains can efficiently locate a specific transaction on a specific chain. Therefore a network-aware transaction identifier is necessary.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The XRP Ledger can support an ecosystem of cooperatively interconnected XRPL Protocol Chains. Users of these chains need to efficiently locate specific transactions on specific chains.

The CTID is a network-aware transaction identifier which improves the user experience for sidechains. It provides a way to efficiently locate a specific transaction without relying on transaction hashes, which can be difficult to find in a multi-chain environment.

CTIDs allow users to quickly and easily identify their transactions on a particular chain using the ledger sequence number, transaction index, and network ID. Users can thus identify their transactions and confirm their successful completion. Additionally, CTIDs require less storage space than transaction hashes, which can be beneficial for databases containing millions of transactions.
```
